Instead of what we've been doing,
which is where I've been intentionally
404ing the site so that I can see a list
of the blog posts, let's actually build
a list of blog posts on the homepage, so
that we can see what's been written and
show the latest posts.
So I'm gonna come back out here, refresh.
I wanna show down here
a list of my latest posts.
So first,
let's figure out how to get that.
So I'm gonna go back into the graph qL and
I want all Mdx nodes,
okay that part's good.
But let's turn this part off for now.
And let's get a few things that we need.
So the first and foremost, we want the id.
Whenever you're querying for making a list
in Gatsby, it's worth grabbing the id,
because you're probably
gonna need to set a key,
if you're iterating over these fields in
react, if you wanna look up the posts,
the id is the thing that's
guaranteed to be the same.
So it's a consistent thing to grab.
So grab that id.
I also want the slug of the post,
and then out of the front matter,
I wanna be able to show the title,
and I wanna show the date.
Now let's see,
we want the description for sure.
And then let's get the date.
And let's do that like relative time.
That should be everything we
need to build a blog role.
So from here I can make
a list of here are my posts.
And then you know what else we should do?
Let's actually sort these.
So, I'm gonna sort by the date.
So here I've checked fields, and
this is one of the purple ones.
I know the contrast is low here,
and I apologize about that.
But under fields, we can choose one of
these and I want front matter and you see
these underscores indicate that it's one
of the fields inside of front matter.
So we want the date, and
I wanna order it by descending.
So the most recent post first, right?
And if I change that to ascending,
it would show me the oldest
blog at the top of the list.
So we're gonna go descending.
So now we've got an ordered
list of our posts that for now,
we're just gonna make it everything and
because I want this to be a unique name,
we'll call it get blog posts.
And I'm gonna copy this.
And now we can use it, right?
So we've got a list of these.
So I'm gonna go into the homepage.
And let's use a static query again.
We'll get our data.
Do a tagged template literal graph qL and
inside we can paste our query.
So, now that we've got that,
we have data and
that's gonna contain all of our Mdx posts.
So we can pull those out by,
we'll just put them into a variable so
it's easier for
us to reason about we'll get posts, and
that's gonna be data.allMdx.nodes.
Because again, the way that this works is,
we go data is the query, and
then we have the query name, so all Mdx.
So data.allMdx.nodes and
then each post is gonna have id slug and
frontmatter with the details that we need.
Then down in here, I want to
create a second level heading and
we'll say check out my recent blog posts.
And let's make a list out of it.
So we'll do an unordered list.
And inside of the unordered list,
we're gonna do a posts.map of each post.
And for each of these,
we're going to return a list item, and
that list item's gonna have
a key of the post.id, and
inside of it I want to use that
link component to the post.slug.
And so the post slug is here,
that's the actual URL, right?
And then we're going to link
to post.frontmatter.title.
And then I wanna show when it was written,
so
we'll do like a small tag, and
we'll say it was posted
post.frontmatter.date.
Okay, so it will add that space for us so
that we can break it across two lines.
All right, so this is good.
This should work.
Let's go check it out.
See how we did.
Hey, hey, look at that.
Okay, so now we have on our homepage,
a heading and
the ability to get into our post.
And so now we can actually
navigate this post, right?
So this is where Gatsby really starts to
shine, because we added this data in, and
because it's predictably in our graph qL
layer, all the things that we learned for
like querying metadata still apply
when we wanna get Mdx data, right?
It feels very predictable.
The things we're doing are the same.
We're gonna go to graphical,
we're gonna build a query,
we're gonna copy paste that query into
our component, and then we use that data.
So you'll start to see like these are the
patterns that'll carry you through all of
your Gatsby builds.
It's really nice, really powerful,
you'll get a lot of mileage out of it.
So why don't we commit our work there,
because we're gonna shift over and
start talking about images.